Include docs about Python logs auto-instrumentation (#3195)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/python/automatic/logs-example.md

---
title: Logs Auto-Instrumentation Example
linkTitle: Logs Example
weight: 20
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: distro instrumentor mkdir MSIE Referer Starlette uninstrumented virtualenv WSGI
---

This page demonstrates how to use Python logs auto-instrumentation in
OpenTelemetry.

> Unlike Traces and Metrics, there is no Logs API. There is only an SDK. For

Reviewer: Might be worth clarifying here that there *is* a logs bridge API, but it *is* different from the traces/metrics api in that it's not how application developers would be creating logs. Instead they would use this bridge API to setup log appenders in the standard logging libraries. See https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/bridge-api.md

Author: Thank you! This is super helpful!!

Python, you use the Python `logger` library, and then the OTel SDK attaches an
OTLP handler to the root logger, turning the Python logger into an OTLP logger.
One way to accomplish this is documented in the logs example in [OpenTelemetry
Python repository][].

Another way this is accomplished is through Python's support for
auto-instrumentation of logs. The example below is based on the logs example in
[OpenTelemetry Python repository][].

> Start by creating the examples directory and creating the example Python file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start by creating the examples directory and the example Python file:
```

```sh
mkdir python-logs-example
cd python-logs-example
touch example.py
```

> Paste the following contents into `example.py`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Paste the following contents into `example.py`:
```

  --service_name python-logs-example \
  python $(pwd)/example.py
```

Sample output:

```text
...
ScopeSpans #0
ScopeSpans SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope __main__
Span #0
    Trace ID       : 389d4ac130a390d3d99036f9cd1db75e
    Parent ID      :
    ID             : f318281c4654edc5
    Name           : foo
    Kind           : Internal
    Start time     : 2023-08-18 17:04:05.982564 +0000 UTC
    End time       : 2023-08-18 17:04:05.982667 +0000 UTC
    Status code    : Unset
    Status message :
Events:
SpanEvent #0
     -> Name: This is a span event
     -> Timestamp: 2023-08-18 17:04:05.982586 +0000 UTC

...

ScopeLogs #0
ScopeLogs SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope opentelemetry.sdk._logs._internal
LogRecord #0
ObservedTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-08-18 17:04:05.982605056 +0000 UTC
SeverityText: ERROR
SeverityNumber: Error(17)
Body: Str(This is a log message)
Attributes:
     -> otelSpanID: Str(f318281c4654edc5)
     -> otelTraceID: Str(389d4ac130a390d3d99036f9cd1db75e)
     -> otelTraceSampled: Bool(true)
     -> otelServiceName: Str(python-logs-example)
Trace ID: 389d4ac130a390d3d99036f9cd1db75e
Span ID: f318281c4654edc5
...
```

> Note how in the sample output, the Span Event and the Log both have the same
> SpanID: `f318281c4654edc5`, since they're included under the same Span.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the Span Event and the Log both have the same
SpanID (`f318281c4654edc5`). This is because they're a part of the same Span.
```

---
title: Logs Auto-Instrumentation Example
linkTitle: Logs Example
weight: 20
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: distro instrumentor mkdir MSIE Referer Starlette uninstrumented virtualenv WSGI
---

This page demonstrates how to use Python logs auto-instrumentation in
OpenTelemetry.

Unlike Traces and Metrics, there is no equivalent Logs API. There is only an
SDK. For Python, you use the Python `logger` library, and then the OTel SDK
attaches an OTLP handler to the root logger, turning the Python logger into an
OTLP logger. One way to accomplish this is documented in the logs example in
[OpenTelemetry Python repository][].

Another way this is accomplished is through Python's support for
auto-instrumentation of logs. The example below is based on the logs example in
[OpenTelemetry Python repository][].

> There is a logs bridge API; however, it is different from the Traces and
> Metrics API, because it's not used by application developers to create logs.
> Instead, they would use this bridge API to setup log appenders in the standard
> language-specific logging libraries. More information can be found

> > [here](/content-modules/opentelemetry-specification/specification//logs/bridge-api.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [here](/content-modules/opentelemetry-specification/specification/logs/bridge-api.md).
```
